<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />

		<title>ALTO Board Meeting Minutes</title>

	</head>

<body>
<p>
<b>Agenda for December 11, 2014 ALTO board teleconference.</b>
</p>

<ol>
<li>Review action items [<b>Frederick</b> leads discussion]</li>
<li>Discuss release of ALTO schema v3.0. Review comments received about schema v3.0 (if any) including the recent question from Lars Svensson (Deutsche Nationalbibliothek). [<b>Everyone</b>]</li>
<li>Report on September 10 ALTO editorial board face-to-face meeting in London: Agenda and summary of items discussed.
	[<b>Markus</b> leads discussion]</li>
<li>Review Github directory structure: Create a repository for general questions (such as the one from Lars Svensson) about ALTO? [<b>Frederick</b> leads discussion]</li>
<li>Review migration from PBWorks to Github. It appears that all issues have been transferred to Gibhub.  Discussion? [<b>Frederick</b> leads discussion]</li>
<li>Brief report on effort to recruit new board members. Question for Siang Hock: Can you represent Asian languages (instead of recruiting a new board member for this)? [<b>Frederick</b> leads discussion]</li>
<li>Reminder to send URLs to digital collections which use ALTO XML to Nate so that he can update the use case examples at <a href=http://www.loc.gov/standards/alto/community/implementers.php>ALTO Implementers</a> [<b>Frederick</b> harangues everyone]</li>
</ol>

<p>
<b>Action items</b>
</p>

<ul>
<li>[Action 2014-09-25] <del><b>Frederick</b> will add an explanation of what's in the Github repositories 'board' and 'altoxml.github.io'.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2014-07-03] <del><b>Frederick</b> will contact UT Austin about broken link on Library of Congress's ALTO implementer's webpage.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2014-07-03] <del><b>Jean Philippe</b> and <b>Jukka</b> will create draft schema version 2.2 and create a README for it.  They will send the README to the ALTO for comment.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2014-07-03] <del><b>Nate</b> will make the corresponding updates to the Library of Congress ALTO webpages on July 8.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2014-07-03] <del><b>Frederick</b> will announce the draft schema release on the ALTO listserv and distribute the README.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2014-07-03] <del><b>Brian</b> and <b>Evelien</b> will send hi-res logos for CDNC and KB respectively to Jean Philippe.  <b>Jukka</b> will send a hi-res logo for Finland.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2014-04-24] <del><b>Jean Philippe</b> will create a branch of the v2.1 ALTO schema on Github. The branch will be used to implement the needed named types for ALTO dialects in schema v2.2.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2014-04-24] <del><b>Jean Philippe</b> will draft a design for the ALTO poster at WLIC 2014.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2014-04-24] <b>Jukka</b> will create a short document showing how to migrate open change proposals from PBWorks to Github.</li>
<li>[Action 2014-02-20] <del><b>Everyone</b> will copy the open proposal that they champion from PBworks to Github.  The open proposals will become "issues" in Github.</del></li>
<li>[Action 2013-12-12] <b>Brian</b> will create text for an ALTO tools and software webpage.</li>
<li>[Action 2013-11-03] <b>Frederick</b> will recruit a board member from an OCR software development team, perhaps Tesseract.</li>
<li>[Action 2013-11-03] <b>Frederick</b> will recruit a board member from an Asian language country.</li>
<li>[Action 2013-09-19] <b>Everyone</b> to send ALTO use cases to Nate.  Nate will add new use cases to the ALTO implementers webpage.</li>
<li>[Action 2013-04-11] <b>Frederick</b> will draft a change proposal for "normalized" coordinates.</li>
</ul>

<p>
<b>Attending members</b>
</p>

<ul>
<li>Brian Geiger</li>
<li>Evelien Ket</li>
<li>Frederick Zarndt</li>
<li>Jukka Kervinen</li>
<li>Nate Trail</li>
<li>Siang Hock</li>
</ul>

<p>
<b>Minutes</b>
</p>
<p>
Review action items.  All done except for last 5 items. No board member recruit from Asian language country. 
Siang Hock is familiar with 1 or 2 Asian languages; he will do his best to handle Asian language questions.  
Brian hasn't started ALTO tools page yet; tools page will go on Github and could also go on LOC ALTO web page.
</p>
<p>
No feedback received about ALTO 3.0.  KB successfully implemented ALTO V2.1, but,
because of confusion about backward compatibility if ALTO v2.1, it will implement v3.0.  
Harvard Law Library has a pilot project for which it will use v3.0.
Evelien reports that the Austrian National Library is developing a tool called Structify.
</p>
<p>
Jukka summarizes what happened at the London face-to-face ALTO board meeting.  
(Frederick transcribed Markus's minutes into September 25, 2014 ALTO board minutes.)
<p>
Jukka suggested creating milestones for action itmes. Frederick agrees with Jukka's suggestions.  
A milestone can have only 1 owner which differs from how action items are presently used. 
Jukka suggests we create a label for each board member and attach these labels to miletsone / action items.
Create a milestone for each board meeting.  All attending board members agree that action items would be best tracked by milestones.
</p>
<p>
London board meeting suggests that all PBWorks minutes, etc, should be moved go Github.  
Frederick asks if this is worthwhile. Evelien thinks that moving PBWorks to Github should be done. 
Frederick will start moving stuff from PBWorks to Github and implement milestones for action items.
Siang Hock suggest creating a .zip file of everything on PBWorks and depositing it in Github.
</p>
<p>
Agenda item 4: Summary of London discussion of glyphs change request.  Suggestions for changes to change request are summarized in September 25, 2014, minutes. 
Other board members opinions about glyph change request solicited.  Jo is owner of this change request but is not in attendance. Further discussion 
of glyph change request will be postponed until next meeting.
</p>
<p>
Agenda item 5: Evelien is owner.  She has created tag use cases and tried to create code samples for same.  Evelien has done the same for shape use case.
Evelien has several examples to illustrate.
According to Siang Hock, Chinese, especially older newspapers, often may have mixed text directions on the same page, for example, left to right, 
top to bottom with text lines read from right to left.
Evelien thinks that rotation and polygons cannot be separated and should be considered together.  
Current ALTO spec says rotation is CCW or CW but spec doesn't say <b>what</b> is rotating.
Further discussion is postponed until next meeting. Siang Hock will find use cases to illustrate text direction and rotation for Chinese.
As an aside, Evelien proposes that we decide how we want to use the altoxml.github.io repository -- what kind of stuff should go into it.
</p>
<p>
Evelien will change files in altoxml.github.io so that tag and shape use cases can be browsed and viewed from browser in the same way as minutes and agenda.
</p>
<p>
3 change requests in submitted stage. Frederick asks if these 3 request should be moved from submitted to discussion.  
All agree to move 3 change requests from 'submitted' to 'discussion'.  Siang Hock will become champion of 
</p>
<p>
Agenda item 7: Organization of Github.  As already discussed, action items should be milestones.  
Jukka proposes killing PBWorks.  No volunteers to move PBWorks stuff to Github. 
Evelien suggests figuring out how to use Github and what's important from PBWorks.
</p>
<p>
Discussion of next ALTO board face-to-face meeting.  What conferences to target for face-to-face meeting? LIBER, IFLA, DLF, JCDL, TPDL? 
</p>
</body>
</html>
